Welcome back to the
Windows Forensic Path.
In Course 11, we're talking about
creating a forensic disk image.
In this module, Module 2,
we're going to talk about
validating our forensic tools.
Validation is important because
we want to ensure the accuracy
of our findings and conclusions.
If we haven't validated
the tools we're using,
how can we say with
certainty that they're
working properly?
We want to be aware of
any software issues,
so we need to test and
validate to make sure that
your tools are working and you do
not have any software issues.
We want to avoid our findings
being called into question.
If we haven't tested
and validated,
it leaves a big hole for somebody
to attack us on the
validity of our findings.
What should be validated?
Well, definitely you want to
validate your hardware
write blockers,
and you want to make
sure they're working.
You want to validate your
software write blockers,
I would do this at each use.
You want to make sure you
validate your imaging software,
the software we're going
to use to make the image
just to ensure that it
is working correctly,
and you want to also validate
your examination software,
the software you're going to use
to conduct your examination.
When we're validating our
hardware write blockers,
you want to use a
designated drive.
You want to have a
designated test drive in
your lab that you
use to validate your
hardware write blockers.
You never validate on
the original evidence.
You want to know
the hash value of
the drive that you are using,
the designated
drive you're using.
It is good to use a small drive
because it makes it faster
to do the validation.
Validate at least monthly or
whatever your operation requires.
Keep the firmware updated.
Hardware write blockers
have internal firmware,
and you want to make sure that
your firmware is up-to-date.
You never want to be embarrassed
finding out that you're
write blocker failed
because you as the investigator
failed to update your firmware.
The validation process for
a hardware write blocker
is you'll connect your
designated test drive
to the write blocker,
you will conduct a hash
value of the test drive.
Once you've conducted
the hash value,
you'll attempt to
write to the drive.
Then you will rehash
the test drive and the
hash value should match.
Now, while you're going
through this process,
you want to be documenting.
You want to be writing
your steps down,
you want to take screenshots
of your write attempts to
show that you have
attempted to write to
the drive and that
you were not able to,
and you want to record
your beginning hash value,
the one you do before you
attempt to write to the drive,
and the hash value you do
after you've attempted
to write to the drive.
You want to record all this,
you want to keep it in
a file somewhere in
your lab, and like I said,
you want to do it
at least monthly
or whatever your agency requires.
Validating your software
write blockers.
Now, software write
blockers are used
mainly on removable media
at this point in time.
Or you're going to use them on
a hard drive that
cannot be removed,
like when we talked
about booting into
a Linux distro or a
Windows FE distro.
You're going to use these when
the hardware option
is not available.
If you have a hardware
options available,
always use it over
the software option,
and make sure that you keep
your software write
blockers updated.
Software write blockers also
use a designated drive.
Again, have a designated
USB device because you're
mainly going to use
these things on
removable media at
this point in time,
know the hash value
of that drive,
use a small drive,
and validate it before each use.
The process would
be the same as it
was with your hardware
write blocker.
You would initiate the
software write blocker
and make sure it's turned on,
plug in the USB device,
hash the USB device,
attempt to write to it,
and then rehash the device and
make sure those
hash values match.
It doesn't take very long to do,
and I highly recommend
doing it before each use.
When you do it, you're going
to do it on your test drive,
never ever validate
on original evidence.
We're going to activate the
software write blocker,
we're going to connect
the test drive
to our examination computer.
We're going to hash
the test drive,
we're going to attempt to
write to the test drive,
and rehash the test drive.
That is the validation process.
Our hash values should
be the same, and again,
make sure you document
the results and
the actions that
you took when you
attempted to write
throughout this process.
You should also keep these
validations somewhere in
your lab so that you can
show documentation if it's
ever called into question.
Now, your imaging software.
One thing you want
to make sure about
your imaging software is
you want to make sure it
is imaging the
entire physical disk
if you're imaging
a physical drive.
Make sure you're getting
the entire drive.
When you validate again,
use a test drive with a known
size and known hash values.
The hashes should match;
the hash of the test drive,
should match the
hash of the image,
and when you rehash
the test drive,
that hash value
should also match.
Use a small drive because
it makes the process
much quicker.
Keep your software updated,
your imaging software.
You should not be using
outdated versions.
Validate as required
by your agency policy.
If you do not have
a policy, again,
I would recommend doing
it in disk once a month.
Again, you need to document
the results of a validation.
Our examination software.
Read through these notes on
your evaluation software so
you know if there
are any known bugs.
Be aware of these known issues.
Always update your
examination software
to the latest stable version.
The process is similar.
We're going to use a
designated validation drive.
Your lab should have a
drive that they use to
validate the software you're
examining your evidence with.
The drive should
have known results.
It should have known hash values,
and it also should have
known files on it.
You want to cover
all the major functions
of your software.
Whatever examination
software you're using,
when you do your validation,
that should include all
the major functions
of that particular
piece of software.
If you're looking for
a lot of image files,
for example, part of
your validation should be
recovering image files.
Cover the common areas
of your examinations.
Follow your agency policy,
and document the results
of your validation.
If you're somewhere that
does not have a policy,
I would do a validation with
each full-number upgrade
of the software.
If you go from version
4.1 to version 5.1,
when that 4 becomes a 5 is
when you need to validate.
What validation does for
us is it allows us to be
confident in the accuracy of
our findings and conclusions.
Because if we didn't test
our examination software,
how can we be confident with
the findings that we're
seeing when our dates and
times with the files recovery,
the locations that software
is telling us these
files came from?
You definitely need to
validate your
examination software.
We also want to adhere to
scientific principle We talked
about scientific principles at
the beginning of this path.
This also helps us head off
our findings being
called into question.
In our next module,
we're going to take
a close look at
our write blockers and talk
about how they function.